README.md, before:

# **HealthifyZone - Portfolio Project 4**

HealthifyZone is a blog where people who would like to improve their lifestyle can come and find a lot of useful things. Some of them are articles about yoga and exercise. Users can sign up, leave comments, and like and dislike the comments of other users, as well as like and dislike articles. Users can also look for recipes, ingredients and preparation steps as well as see other users' profiles.

[Live link to website](https://healthifyzone-8c9a32d8f968.herokuapp.com/)

## **UX**

For the colors, I decided to keep it thematic and mainly stick with different shades of green, as green has been linked with growth, vitality, and overall well-being, as well as being soothing to the eyes, which in turn will help with the UX.

### **Colour Scheme**

I am using [Coolors.co](https://coolors.co/dff8df-1e4607-529929-76d176-6aad6a-333333-800080-fd5a5a-a89f9f) to showcase the color scheme of the website.

![Colour Scheme](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/healthifyzone_color_scheme.png)

### **Typography**

I imported the font for the website from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Inter) and I used the Inter font as the main font.

![Typography - Inter](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/website_font.png)

## **User Stories**

### Users

- As a Site User I can click on the Categories tab in the navigation bar so that I can decide which one contains articles that might be relevant to me.
- As a Site User I can click on a category so that I can see what articles it contains.
- As a Site User I can view information about the categories so that I can see who created them and when they were created.
- As a Site User I can click on the category's author's username so that I can navigate to the author's profile page for more information about them.
- As a Registered Site User I can add a blog post so that I can contribute to the community.
- As a Site User I can see a paginated list of posts so that I can easily browse through them and access relevant content.
- As a Site User I can click on a blog post so that I can see the full article.
- As a Registered Site User I can click on the blog post's author's username so that I can navigate to the author's profile page for more information about them.
- As a Registered Site User I can comment on posts so that I can be a part of the conversation.
- As a Registered Site User I can I want to be able to Like or Unlike blog posts, so that I can express my appreciation for valuable content.
- As a Registered Site User I can Like or Unlike comments so that I can express my appreciation for valuable contributions.
- As a Registered Site User I can delete my own blog posts so that I can maintain control over my content and remove outdated or irrelevant posts.
- As a Registered Site User I can delete my own comments so that I can maintain control over my contributions and remove any inappropriate or outdated comments.
- As a Registered Site User I can update my comment so that I can fix any potential typos or change of mind.
- As a New Site User I can see a registration form so that I can create my account.
- As a New Site User I can verify my email address so that I can activate my account.
- As a Site User I can see appropriate error messages if my login attempt fails so that I can understand why the login failed and take corrective action if necessary.
- As a Site User I can choose the option to stay logged in after closing the browser so that I don't have to input my credentials everytime.
- As a Site User I can reset my password so that I don't have to create a new account.
- As a Site User I can log out of my account so that I can protect my privacy and secure my account when I'm done using the website.
- As a Site User I can choose to log in with my email instead of my username so that I can easily access my account using a method that I prefer.
- As a Site User I can see a paginated list of the already sorted articles by category so that I can navigate through the articles more easily
- As a Registered User I can click on My Profile tab so that I can view my profile information
- As a Registered User I can upload my own profile picture so that I can personalize my profile.
- As a Registered User I can edit my profile so that I can keep my profile information up-to-date and accurate.
- As a Site User I can search for recipes so that I can find healthy dishes.
- As a Site User I can click on the recipe so that I can see the necessary ingredients and the preparation instructions.
- As a Site User I can click on the About tab so that I can better understand the purpose of the website.
- As a Site User I can sign up to the website so that I can receive the full benefits of the website
- As a Registered User I can edit my comments so that I can ensure they accurately reflect the information I want to convey.
- 

### Site Admin

- As a Site Admin I can approve or disapprove comments so that I can monitor the comments' sections.
- As a Site Admin I can Delete Blog Posts so that I can monitor the blog's content.
- As a Site Admin I can delete comments on the website so that I can remove inappropriate or spam comments.
- As a Site Admin I can I can create, read, update and delete posts so that I can decide what content I can upload to the website.

## **Wireframes**

The wireframes were created with [Balsamiq's Website](https://balsamiq.com/).

### Home Page Wireframe

![Homepage wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/homepage_wireframe.png)

### Categories Wireframe

![Category wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/categories_wireframe.png)

### Recipe Search Wireframe

![Recipe Search wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_wireframe.png)

### Recipe Results Wireframe

![Recipe Results wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_wireframe.png)

### View Recipe Details Wireframe

![View Recipe Details wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_recipe_wireframe.png)

### View Recipe Details Wireframe

![View Recipe Details wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_recipe_wireframe.png)

### View Article Wireframe

![View Article wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_wireframe.png)

### View Article by Category Wireframe

![Article by Category wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/articles_by_category.png)

### Create Article Wireframe

![Create Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_wireframe.png)

### Edit Article Wireframe

![Edit Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_wireframe.png)

### Delete Article Wireframe

![Delete Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_wireframe.png)

### Profile Wireframe

![Profile wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/profile_wireframe.png)

### Sign Up Wireframe

![Sign Up wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign_up_wireframe.png)

### Log In Wireframe

![Log In wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/login_wireframe.png)


### Log Out Wireframe

![Log Out wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/logout_wireframe.png)

## **Wireframes**

### Existing Features

- **Navbar**

    - The navbar can be seen on every page of the website it includes links to the main pages of the site.

![Navbar](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/navbar.png)

- **Footer**

    - The footer can also be found on each page of the website and it contains information about me as the developer as well as a link to my GitHub page.

![Footer](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/footer.png)

- **Homepage**

    - The landing page contains previews for each article of the blog and pagination buttons for "NEXT" and "PREV".

![Homepage](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/landing_page.png)

- **Article Preview (logged out user)**

    - Each preview consits of the article's title, subtitle, date of creation and link to the author's profile page as well as "View Article" button.

![Article Preview (logged out user)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_preview.png)

- **Article Preview (logged in user that is owner of the article)**

    - Along with the rest of the features the logged in owner of the article can see two additional options. A "Delete Article" button and an "Edit Article" button.

![Article Preview (logged in user that is owner of the article)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_preview_logged_in_owner_of_article.png)


- **Article Author Profile Link**

    - The link to the article's author's profile page will only work for logged in users, if they are not logged in they will be taken to the log in page.

![Article Author Profile Link](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_author_link.png)

- **View Article Button**

    - The "View Article" button will take the user to the full page for that article.

![View Article Button](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_button.png)

- **Pagination Button (NEXT)**

    - The "NEXT" pagination button will take the user to the next page.

![Pagination Button (NEXT)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pagination_button_next.png)

- **Pagination Button (PREV)**

    - The "PREV" pagination button will bring back the user to the previous page.

![Pagination Button (PREV)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pagination_button_prev.png)

Commit message:

add article delete/edit buttons to features in README

README.md, after:

# **HealthifyZone - Portfolio Project 4**

HealthifyZone is a blog where people who would like to improve their lifestyle can come and find a lot of useful things. Some of them are articles about yoga and exercise. Users can sign up, leave comments, and like and dislike the comments of other users, as well as like and dislike articles. Users can also look for recipes, ingredients and preparation steps as well as see other users' profiles.

[Live link to website](https://healthifyzone-8c9a32d8f968.herokuapp.com/)

## **UX**

For the colors, I decided to keep it thematic and mainly stick with different shades of green, as green has been linked with growth, vitality, and overall well-being, as well as being soothing to the eyes, which in turn will help with the UX.

### **Colour Scheme**

I am using [Coolors.co](https://coolors.co/dff8df-1e4607-529929-76d176-6aad6a-333333-800080-fd5a5a-a89f9f) to showcase the color scheme of the website.

![Colour Scheme](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/healthifyzone_color_scheme.png)

### **Typography**

I imported the font for the website from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Inter) and I used the Inter font as the main font.

![Typography - Inter](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/website_font.png)

## **User Stories**

### Users

- As a Site User I can click on the Categories tab in the navigation bar so that I can decide which one contains articles that might be relevant to me.
- As a Site User I can click on a category so that I can see what articles it contains.
- As a Site User I can view information about the categories so that I can see who created them and when they were created.
- As a Site User I can click on the category's author's username so that I can navigate to the author's profile page for more information about them.
- As a Registered Site User I can add a blog post so that I can contribute to the community.
- As a Site User I can see a paginated list of posts so that I can easily browse through them and access relevant content.
- As a Site User I can click on a blog post so that I can see the full article.
- As a Registered Site User I can click on the blog post's author's username so that I can navigate to the author's profile page for more information about them.
- As a Registered Site User I can comment on posts so that I can be a part of the conversation.
- As a Registered Site User I can I want to be able to Like or Unlike blog posts, so that I can express my appreciation for valuable content.
- As a Registered Site User I can Like or Unlike comments so that I can express my appreciation for valuable contributions.
- As a Registered Site User I can delete my own blog posts so that I can maintain control over my content and remove outdated or irrelevant posts.
- As a Registered Site User I can delete my own comments so that I can maintain control over my contributions and remove any inappropriate or outdated comments.
- As a Registered Site User I can update my comment so that I can fix any potential typos or change of mind.
- As a New Site User I can see a registration form so that I can create my account.
- As a New Site User I can verify my email address so that I can activate my account.
- As a Site User I can see appropriate error messages if my login attempt fails so that I can understand why the login failed and take corrective action if necessary.
- As a Site User I can choose the option to stay logged in after closing the browser so that I don't have to input my credentials everytime.
- As a Site User I can reset my password so that I don't have to create a new account.
- As a Site User I can log out of my account so that I can protect my privacy and secure my account when I'm done using the website.
- As a Site User I can choose to log in with my email instead of my username so that I can easily access my account using a method that I prefer.
- As a Site User I can see a paginated list of the already sorted articles by category so that I can navigate through the articles more easily
- As a Registered User I can click on My Profile tab so that I can view my profile information
- As a Registered User I can upload my own profile picture so that I can personalize my profile.
- As a Registered User I can edit my profile so that I can keep my profile information up-to-date and accurate.
- As a Site User I can search for recipes so that I can find healthy dishes.
- As a Site User I can click on the recipe so that I can see the necessary ingredients and the preparation instructions.
- As a Site User I can click on the About tab so that I can better understand the purpose of the website.
- As a Site User I can sign up to the website so that I can receive the full benefits of the website
- As a Registered User I can edit my comments so that I can ensure they accurately reflect the information I want to convey.
- 

### Site Admin

- As a Site Admin I can approve or disapprove comments so that I can monitor the comments' sections.
- As a Site Admin I can Delete Blog Posts so that I can monitor the blog's content.
- As a Site Admin I can delete comments on the website so that I can remove inappropriate or spam comments.
- As a Site Admin I can I can create, read, update and delete posts so that I can decide what content I can upload to the website.

## **Wireframes**

The wireframes were created with [Balsamiq's Website](https://balsamiq.com/).

### Home Page Wireframe

![Homepage wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/homepage_wireframe.png)

### Categories Wireframe

![Category wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/categories_wireframe.png)

### Recipe Search Wireframe

![Recipe Search wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_wireframe.png)

### Recipe Results Wireframe

![Recipe Results wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_wireframe.png)

### View Recipe Details Wireframe

![View Recipe Details wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_recipe_wireframe.png)

### View Recipe Details Wireframe

![View Recipe Details wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_recipe_wireframe.png)

### View Article Wireframe

![View Article wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_wireframe.png)

### View Article by Category Wireframe

![Article by Category wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/articles_by_category.png)

### Create Article Wireframe

![Create Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_wireframe.png)

### Edit Article Wireframe

![Edit Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_wireframe.png)

### Delete Article Wireframe

![Delete Article Wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_wireframe.png)

### Profile Wireframe

![Profile wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/profile_wireframe.png)

### Sign Up Wireframe

![Sign Up wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign_up_wireframe.png)

### Log In Wireframe

![Log In wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/login_wireframe.png)


### Log Out Wireframe

![Log Out wireframe](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/logout_wireframe.png)

## **Wireframes**

### Existing Features

- **Navbar**

    - The navbar can be seen on every page of the website it includes links to the main pages of the site.

![Navbar](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/navbar.png)

- **Footer**

    - The footer can also be found on each page of the website and it contains information about me as the developer as well as a link to my GitHub page.

![Footer](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/footer.png)

- **Homepage**

    - The landing page contains previews for each article of the blog and pagination buttons for "NEXT" and "PREV".

![Homepage](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/landing_page.png)

- **Article Preview (logged out user)**

    - Each preview consits of the article's title, subtitle, date of creation and link to the author's profile page as well as "View Article" button.

![Article Preview (logged out user)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_preview.png)

- **Article Preview (logged in user that is owner of the article)**

    - Along with the rest of the features the logged in owner of the article can see two additional options. A "Delete Article" button and an "Edit Article" button.

![Article Preview (logged in user that is owner of the article)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_preview_logged_in_owner_of_article.png)

- **Delete Article Button**

    - The "Delete Article" button will take the user to a page where they would need to confirm the deletion of the article.

![Delete Article Button](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_delete_button.png)

- **Edit Article Button**

    - The "Edit Article" button will take the user to a page where they will be able to edit/update their article.

![Edit Article Button](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_edit_button.png)

- **Article Author Profile Link**

    - The link to the article's author's profile page will only work for logged in users, if they are not logged in they will be taken to the log in page.

![Article Author Profile Link](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/article_author_link.png)

- **View Article Button**

    - The "View Article" button will take the user to the full page for that article.

![View Article Button](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_button.png)

- **Pagination Button (NEXT)**

    - The "NEXT" pagination button will take the user to the next page.

![Pagination Button (NEXT)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pagination_button_next.png)

- **Pagination Button (PREV)**

    - The "PREV" pagination button will bring back the user to the previous page.

![Pagination Button (PREV)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pagination_button_prev.png)
