TESTING.md, before:

# Testing

## **HTML Validation**

As there is jinja syntax in my HTML code, simply pasting the code directly in the validator wouldn't work.
The way I have done the validation is by using the URIs from the deployed pages from Heroku.

Since some of the pages require the user to be logged in, this way of validation wouldn't work as the HTML validator doesn't have access to authentication.

For these pages I have extracted the code by right-clicking on the pages that need validation and selecting "View Page Source" and pasting the code directly in the validator.

| Page | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage (first validation) | ![Homepage (first validation)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/first-validation-homepage.png) | FAIL: The first validation returned a couple of errors about the button elements being descendants of the anchor tags elements |
| Homepage (second validation) | ![Homepage (second validation)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/second-validation-homepage.png) | PASS |
| Category Page | ![Category Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/category-page-validation.png) | PASS |
| View Article Page | ![View Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | ![Sign Up Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign-up-page-validation.png) | PASS |
| Log In Page | ![Log In Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_in_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_out_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_out_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | ![Recipe Search Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Results Page | ![Recipe Results Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| View Recipe Page | ![View Recipe Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_details_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Own Profile Page | ![Own Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/own_profile_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Another User's Profile Page | ![Another User's Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/another_user_profile_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Sent Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_sent_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Link Opened Page | ![Password Reset Email Link Opened Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_opened_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Done Page | ![Password Reset Done Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_done_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Create Article Page | ![Create Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Edit Article Page | ![Edit Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Delete Article Page | ![Delete Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |

## **CSS Validation**



## **JavaScript Validation**

| JS File | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ajax_article_likes.js | ![ajax_article_likes.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/ajax_article_likes.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| ajax_comment_likes.js | ![ajax_comment_likes.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/ajax_comment_likes.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_create_article.js | ![check_image_size_create_article.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_create_article.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_edit_article.js | ![check_image_size_edit_article.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_edit_article.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_profile_update.js | ![check_image_size_profile_update.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_profile_update.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| comments.js | ![comments.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/comments.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| messages_timeout.js | ![messages_timeout.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/messages_timeout.js-validation.png) | PASS |

## **Python Validation**

| Python App/File | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| main app / admin.py | ![main app / admin.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-admin.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / forms.py | ![main app / forms.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-forms.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / models.py | ![main app / models.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-models.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / urls.py | ![main app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / views.py | ![main app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-views.py.png) | PASS |
| recipe app / urls.py | ![recipe app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-recipe-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| recipe app / views.py | ![recipe app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-recipe-views.py.png) | PASS |
| healthifyzone / urls.py | ![healthifyzone / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-project-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| healthifyzone / settings.py | ![healthifyzone / settings.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-project-settings.py.png) | PASS | 
| users app / admin.py | ![users app / admin.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-admin.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / forms.py | ![users app / forms.py ](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-forms.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / models.py | ![users app / models.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-models.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / urls.py | ![users app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / views.py | ![users app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-views.py.png) | PASS |

## **Browser Compatibility**

| Browser | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Google Chrome | ![Google Chrome](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/google_chrome.png) | PASS |
| Mozilla Firefox | ![Mozilla Firefox](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/mozilla.png) | PASS |
| Microsoft Edge | ![Microsoft Edge](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/microsoft_edge.jpeg) | PASS |


## **Responsiveness**

| Device | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Desktop | ![Desktop](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/desktop_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Laptop | ![Laptop](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/laptop_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Tablet (Google DevTools) | ![Tablet](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/tablet_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Mobile (Google DevTools) | ![Mobile](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/mobile_responsiveness.png) | PASS |

## **Lighthouse Validation**

| Page | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage | ![Homepage](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/homepage_lighthouse.png) | PASS: Some minor warnings |
| Category Page | ![Category Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/category_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | ![Sign Up Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign_up_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Log In Page | ![Log In Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/login_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/logout_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | ![Recipe Search Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Results Page | ![Recipe Results Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Details Page | ![Recipe Details Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_details_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Profile Page | ![Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/profile_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Create Article Page | ![Create Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Edit Article Page | ![Edit Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Delete Article Page | ![Delete Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Sent Page | ![Password Reset Email Sent Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_sent_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Opened Page | ![Password Reset Email Opened Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_opened_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Done Page | ![Password Reset Done Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_done_lighthouse.png) | PASS |

## **Manual Testing**

There was ongoing testing throughout the whole development of the website. I was using the Google Developer Tools to troubleshoot issues as well as performing early deployments to see if everything on the website was functioning the way it was expected.

| Page | Feature | Expected Outcome | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage | Logo | When the user clicks on the logo they are redirected to the homepage | PASS |
| Homepage | Home tab | When the user clicks on the Home tab they are redirected to the homepage | PASS |
| Homepage | Category tab | When the user clicks on the Category tab they are redirected to the Category page | PASS |
| Homepage | Recipes tab | When the user clicks on the Recipes tab they are redirected to the Recipes page where they can search for a recipe | PASS |
| Homepage | Sign Up tab | When the user clicks on the Sign Up tab they are redirected to the Sign Up page where they can create an account | PASS |
| Homepage | Log In tab | When the user clicks on the Log In tab they are redirected to the Log In page where they can log in to their account | PASS |
| Homepage | Footer | When the user clicks on the GitHub icon they are redirected to the GitHub page of the developer | PASS |
| Homepage | Article Author Profile Link | When a user that is not logged in clicks on the author profile link in the article card they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Homepage | Article Author Profile Link | When a user that is logged in and clicks on the author profile link in the article card they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Homepage | View Article Button | When a user clicks on the "View Article" button they will be redirected to the individual page for the article | PASS |
| Homepage | Delete Article Button | When a user is logged in and is the author of an article they will see a "Delete Article" button which when clicked will take the user to a delete confirmation page | PASS |
| Homepage | Edit Article Button | When a user is logged in and is the author of an article they will see an "Edit Article" button which when clicked will take the user to a  page where the user can update/ edit the article | PASS |
| Homepage | Pagination Buttons | When the user clicks on the "NEXT" button they will be taken to the next page | PASS |
| Homepage | Pagination Buttons | When the user clicks on the "PREV" button they will be taken to the previous page | PASS |
| Category Page | "View Category" Button | When the user clicks on the "View Category" button they will be taken to a page with all the articles related to the chosen category | PASS |
| Category Page | Category Author Profile Link | When a user that is not logged in clicks on the author profile link in the category card they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Category Page | Category Author Profile Link | When a user that is logged in and clicks on the author profile link in the category card they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | Input Field and "Search" Button | Input a word and click on the "Search" button and if recipes can be found the user will be redirected to the Recipe Results Page | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | Input Field and "Search" Button | Input a word and click on the "Search" button and if recipes cannot be found a blank page will be shown | PASS |
| Recipe Search Results Page | "View Recipe" | When a user clicks on the button they will be taken to the recipe's individual page | PASS |
| Individual Recipe Page | "View Instructions" | When a user clicks on the dropdown button the instructions for the recipe will be shown | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | First Name Field | This field is not mandatory and the user can choose to skip it | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Last Name Field | This field is not mandatory and the user can choose to skip it | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Username Field | The username field accepts usernames that are more than 3 characters, less than 16 and ones that only contain letters, numbers, and underscores | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Password Field and Password Confirmation | Only accepts password format | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | "Sign Up" Button | Create user accound and redirect to the homepage | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | "Sign In" Button | Takes the user to the log in page | PASS |
| Sign In Page | Username Field and Password Field | If the user inputs username and password that match the ones that they used during the sign up they will be logged in their account | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Remember Me" checkbox | When the user checks it, sends a cookie to the browser to allow automated login to take place | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Sign Up" link | When the user clicks on it they are redirected to the Sign Up page | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Reset It Here" link | When the user clicks on it they will be redirected to a page for a password reset | PASS |

Commit message:

add individual article page to manual testing

TESTING.md, after:

# Testing

## **HTML Validation**

As there is jinja syntax in my HTML code, simply pasting the code directly in the validator wouldn't work.
The way I have done the validation is by using the URIs from the deployed pages from Heroku.

Since some of the pages require the user to be logged in, this way of validation wouldn't work as the HTML validator doesn't have access to authentication.

For these pages I have extracted the code by right-clicking on the pages that need validation and selecting "View Page Source" and pasting the code directly in the validator.

| Page | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage (first validation) | ![Homepage (first validation)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/first-validation-homepage.png) | FAIL: The first validation returned a couple of errors about the button elements being descendants of the anchor tags elements |
| Homepage (second validation) | ![Homepage (second validation)](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/second-validation-homepage.png) | PASS |
| Category Page | ![Category Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/category-page-validation.png) | PASS |
| View Article Page | ![View Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/view_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | ![Sign Up Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign-up-page-validation.png) | PASS |
| Log In Page | ![Log In Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_in_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_out_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/log_out_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | ![Recipe Search Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Results Page | ![Recipe Results Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| View Recipe Page | ![View Recipe Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_details_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Own Profile Page | ![Own Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/own_profile_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Another User's Profile Page | ![Another User's Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/another_user_profile_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Sent Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_sent_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Link Opened Page | ![Password Reset Email Link Opened Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_opened_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Done Page | ![Password Reset Done Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_done_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Create Article Page | ![Create Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Edit Article Page | ![Edit Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |
| Delete Article Page | ![Delete Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_page_validation.png) | PASS |

## **CSS Validation**



## **JavaScript Validation**

| JS File | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ajax_article_likes.js | ![ajax_article_likes.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/ajax_article_likes.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| ajax_comment_likes.js | ![ajax_comment_likes.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/ajax_comment_likes.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_create_article.js | ![check_image_size_create_article.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_create_article.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_edit_article.js | ![check_image_size_edit_article.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_edit_article.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| check_image_size_profile_update.js | ![check_image_size_profile_update.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/check_image_size_profile_update.js_validation.png) | PASS |
| comments.js | ![comments.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/comments.js-validation.png) | PASS |
| messages_timeout.js | ![messages_timeout.js](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/messages_timeout.js-validation.png) | PASS |

## **Python Validation**

| Python App/File | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| main app / admin.py | ![main app / admin.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-admin.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / forms.py | ![main app / forms.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-forms.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / models.py | ![main app / models.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-models.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / urls.py | ![main app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| main app / views.py | ![main app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-main-views.py.png) | PASS |
| recipe app / urls.py | ![recipe app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-recipe-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| recipe app / views.py | ![recipe app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-recipe-views.py.png) | PASS |
| healthifyzone / urls.py | ![healthifyzone / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-project-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| healthifyzone / settings.py | ![healthifyzone / settings.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-project-settings.py.png) | PASS | 
| users app / admin.py | ![users app / admin.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-admin.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / forms.py | ![users app / forms.py ](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-forms.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / models.py | ![users app / models.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-models.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / urls.py | ![users app / urls.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-urls.py.png) | PASS |
| users app / views.py | ![users app / views.py](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/pep8-validator-users-views.py.png) | PASS |

## **Browser Compatibility**

| Browser | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Google Chrome | ![Google Chrome](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/google_chrome.png) | PASS |
| Mozilla Firefox | ![Mozilla Firefox](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/mozilla.png) | PASS |
| Microsoft Edge | ![Microsoft Edge](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/microsoft_edge.jpeg) | PASS |


## **Responsiveness**

| Device | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Desktop | ![Desktop](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/desktop_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Laptop | ![Laptop](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/laptop_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Tablet (Google DevTools) | ![Tablet](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/tablet_responsiveness.png) | PASS |
| Mobile (Google DevTools) | ![Mobile](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/mobile_responsiveness.png) | PASS |

## **Lighthouse Validation**

| Page | Screenshot | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage | ![Homepage](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/homepage_lighthouse.png) | PASS: Some minor warnings |
| Category Page | ![Category Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/category_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | ![Sign Up Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/sign_up_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Log In Page | ![Log In Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/login_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Log Out Page | ![Log Out Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/logout_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | ![Recipe Search Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_search_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Results Page | ![Recipe Results Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_results_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Recipe Details Page | ![Recipe Details Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/recipe_details_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Profile Page | ![Profile Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/profile_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Create Article Page | ![Create Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/create_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Edit Article Page | ![Edit Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/edit_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Delete Article Page | ![Delete Article Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/delete_article_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Page | ![Password Reset Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Sent Page | ![Password Reset Email Sent Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_sent_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Email Opened Page | ![Password Reset Email Opened Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_email_opened_lighthouse.png) | PASS |
| Password Reset Done Page | ![Password Reset Done Page](https://github.com/devnickocodes/healthifyzone/blob/main/documentation/password_reset_done_lighthouse.png) | PASS |

## **Manual Testing**

There was ongoing testing throughout the whole development of the website. I was using the Google Developer Tools to troubleshoot issues as well as performing early deployments to see if everything on the website was functioning the way it was expected.

| Page | Feature | Expected Outcome | PASS/FAIL |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Homepage | Logo | When the user clicks on the logo they are redirected to the homepage | PASS |
| Homepage | Home tab | When the user clicks on the Home tab they are redirected to the homepage | PASS |
| Homepage | Category tab | When the user clicks on the Category tab they are redirected to the Category page | PASS |
| Homepage | Recipes tab | When the user clicks on the Recipes tab they are redirected to the Recipes page where they can search for a recipe | PASS |
| Homepage | Sign Up tab | When the user clicks on the Sign Up tab they are redirected to the Sign Up page where they can create an account | PASS |
| Homepage | Log In tab | When the user clicks on the Log In tab they are redirected to the Log In page where they can log in to their account | PASS |
| Homepage | Footer | When the user clicks on the GitHub icon they are redirected to the GitHub page of the developer | PASS |
| Homepage | Article Author Profile Link | When a user is not logged in clicks on the author profile link in the article card they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Homepage | Article Author Profile Link | When a user is logged in and clicks on the author profile link in the article card they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Homepage | View Article Button | When a user clicks on the "View Article" button they will be redirected to the individual page for the article | PASS |
| Homepage | Delete Article Button | When a user is logged in and is the author of an article they will see a "Delete Article" button which when clicked will take the user to a delete confirmation page | PASS |
| Homepage | Edit Article Button | When a user is logged in and is the author of an article they will see an "Edit Article" button which when clicked will take the user to a  page where the user can update/ edit the article | PASS |
| Homepage | Pagination Buttons | When the user clicks on the "NEXT" button they will be taken to the next page | PASS |
| Homepage | Pagination Buttons | When the user clicks on the "PREV" button they will be taken to the previous page | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Article Author Profile Link | When a user is not logged in clicks on the author profile link on the article page they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Article Author Profile Link | When a user is logged in and clicks on the author profile link on the article page they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Comment Author Profile Link | When a user is not logged in clicks on the comment profile link in the comment section they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Comment Author Profile Link | When a user is logged in and clicks on the comment profile link in the comment section they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Like Button (article) | When a user that is not logged in clicks on the heart they will be notified that they need to sign up or log in, in order to like an article | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Like Button (article) | When a user that is logged in clicks on the heart, it will change color and increase the likes by 1 | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Like Button (comment) | When a user that is not logged in clicks on the heart they will be notified that they need to sign up or log in, in order to like a comment | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Like Button (comment) | When a user that is logged in clicks on the heart, it will change color and increase the likes by 1 | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | "Leave a Comment" Button | When a user that is not logged in clicks on the "Leave a Comment" button they will be notified that they need to sign up or log in, in order to leave a comment | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | "Leave a Comment" Button | When a user that is logged in clicks on the "Leave a Comment" button, they can fill in the form and submit it for approval | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | "Delete" button | For the logged in admin there is a delete button on each comment and when clicked there is a confirmation model that shows up and when the admin clicks "Delete" the comment is deleted | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | "Delete" button | For the logged in author of the comment there is a "Delete" button and when clicked there is a confirmation model that shows up and when the user clicks "Delete" the comment is deleted | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | "Edit" button | For the logged in author of the comment there is a "Edit" button and when clicked the form for leaving comments will populate with the contents of the commen so the user can edit and when they click "Submit" the comment will be sent for approval | PASS |
| Individual Article Page | Comment | When a user leaves a comment, it is sent out for approval and until it is approved only they can see it with a paragraph saying "This comment is awaiting approval" | PASS |
| Category Page | "View Category" Button | When the user clicks on the "View Category" button they will be taken to a page with all the articles related to the chosen category | PASS |
| Category Page | Category Author Profile Link | When a user is not logged in clicks on the author profile link in the category card they will be redirected to the log in page | PASS |
| Category Page | Category Author Profile Link | When a user is logged in and clicks on the author profile link in the category card they will be redirected to the profile page of the author | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | Input Field and "Search" Button | Input a word and click on the "Search" button and if recipes can be found the user will be redirected to the Recipe Results Page | PASS |
| Recipe Search Page | Input Field and "Search" Button | Input a word and click on the "Search" button and if recipes cannot be found a blank page will be shown | PASS |
| Recipe Search Results Page | "View Recipe" | When a user clicks on the button they will be taken to the recipe's individual page | PASS |
| Individual Recipe Page | "View Instructions" | When a user clicks on the dropdown button the instructions for the recipe will be shown | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | First Name Field | This field is not mandatory and the user can choose to skip it | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Last Name Field | This field is not mandatory and the user can choose to skip it | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Username Field | The username field accepts usernames that are more than 3 characters, less than 16 and ones that only contain letters, numbers, and underscores | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | Password Field and Password Confirmation | Only accepts password format | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | "Sign Up" Button | Create user accound and redirect to the homepage | PASS |
| Sign Up Page | "Sign In" Button | Takes the user to the log in page | PASS |
| Sign In Page | Username Field and Password Field | If the user inputs username and password that match the ones that they used during the sign up they will be logged in their account | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Remember Me" checkbox | When the user checks it, sends a cookie to the browser to allow automated login to take place | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Sign Up" link | When the user clicks on it they are redirected to the Sign Up page | PASS |
| Sign In Page | "Reset It Here" link | When the user clicks on it they will be redirected to a page for a password reset | PASS |
